a lot of people in American culture and
even worse in a British culture are
trained to imagine that if something is
subjective its immaterial unimportant
and unreal and on the contrary a lot of
the most serious challenges we have as
individuals and on a larger social scale
on a political scale a lot of the most
serious challenges we have have
everything to do with subjective values
subjective reasoning subjective problems
and subjective solutions can be all the
more important and more intractable than
objective ones in terms of the attitude
we have towards the subjective realm I
note that people write in to me all the
time saying well you know diet and
nutrition are subjective you know I mean
there's a technical level on which it's
true what is healthy or unhealthy for
you subjectively is going to be
different than it is for someone else
so that's subjective so you know if you
have diabetes if you're a diabetic
what's healthy for you is not the same
as a healthy diet for someone else
AHA right but the whole sphere of
Dietetics nutrition is still a science
and the personal realm of responsibility
and struggling with the consequences of
the choices we make in health nutrition
and diet you're not dismissing the
importance of that argument you're not
really diminishing how ineluctable the
consequences or actions are in the realm
of diet and attrition by saying well
it's subjective and to use much more
blunt language if you say to someone
this is broccoli broccoli is healthy and
they say back to you oh no no what's
healthy and unhealthy is subjective you
are within your rights to look at the
broccoli look at that person and say
what the is wrong with you like if
you have some health condition
equivalent to diabetes that means you
can't eat broccoli that there must be
something really really wrong with you
no offense it's subjective subjective
doesn't mean what people want to imagine
means subjective doesn't mean you can
ignore or dismiss the problem and really
briefly I've mentioned this before I
knew one woman who was allergic to any
kind of fruit or vegetable that
contained trace amounts of rubber and
that was interesting to learn about so
there were there were some fruits and
vegetables that would be healthy for me
to eat but that she could not eat
because she had that food allergy all
right let's get down to the real point
of this video some people wrote in to me
in response to the last video I did
talking about video games and not just
overcoming video game addiction not
becoming a moderate player of video
games but quitting altogether and quite
a few people rhodium and and thank me
for that video instead it changed their
lives that came as a surprise to me I
did not think it was my best video on
the topic but hey sometimes it's not
that so it's not your best video it's
your worst video that makes the
difference for people for whatever
reason so someone named Dante wrote in
and asked what do you think if a game is
considered a sport is that still a waste
of time a game like Starcraft is many
ways like chess even more elaborate even
more stimulating than the game of chess
and there are tournaments for this video
game is chess also a waste of time yes
now I gave him a very simple very blunt
answer I'm writing I just said yes
they're a waste of time
yes adults who play Starcraft should be
ashamed themselves but in this video I'm
gonna give you a little bit more of a
nuanced and sophisticated answer the
point here is not that video games are
objectively bad it's not that video
games are objectively bad for you and
it's not that video games are
objectively a waste of your time the
question is
blunt language if video games are not a
waste of your time as an adult what the
is wrong with you now just like the
person who has a dietary allergy that
changes what's healthy and unhealthy for
them subjectively I've got to admit
there are circumstances in which playing
video games would not be a waste of your
time or even for me would not be a waste
of mine
I was once bedridden ill in hospital not
gonna tell the whole story and the
medical details was boring but I had a
sickness that was serious enough that I
experienced you know wasting like I lost
the muscle in Mike like my feet and toes
so when I finally got up out of that
hospital bed and walked around like you
know your feet feel exhausted it's weird
so I was really really seriously ill and
whether it was the illness or the
medicine I was on I really couldn't
think clearly I couldn't read a book
look what I could do in the bed was
really limited only lasted for a number
of days let's say it was five days or
seven days but I had a period of time
where I was in a hospital bed and my
ability to read was limited I did
struggle to read truth be told
and you know my mom brought me a plastic
model kit you know were you assemble
pieces of plastic into a model oh yeah
by the way with the illness I was also
just passing out and falling asleep all
the time anyway
so bedridden ill in hospital when there
was really nothing better to do and I
didn't want to watch TV you know various
reasons okay so I lay there in that
hospital bed and I assembled this model
kit and actually said to mommy know what
that was that was not so bad and you
know I think she brought me a second
model kit after second and a third
thanks mom
now you might think hey this could be
the beginning of a great hobby that I
could have spent the rest of my life
assembling little pieces of plastic and
glue into a plastic model nope
as soon as I got up out of that hospital
bed I had something better to do
as soon as I was no longer mentally
disabled or physically disabled you know
that's really what it is temporarily
with that illness I was mentally and
physically disabled there was something
better for me to do as soon as I was
able to do something better than
assembling that model yet that hobby was
a waste of my time whether or not it's a
waste of my time is relative to me it's
relative to Who I am
now you know you may have a friend who
comes back from the war in Afghanistan
and it comes back from the war in Iraq
and is in a hospital bed on painkillers
you know with elaborate injuries and
your friend in that hospital bed it may
be that really all they can do is play
video games you know they may say to you
you know I've got this injury and my
eyes can't focus well and I can't read
and I'm falling asleep and I'm on this
medication that's painkiller and right
now when I am awake about all I can do
is is play video games okay it's very
sad I feel sorry for them and I I would
not dispute okay you know man this is
what you're capable of right now let's
say your friend recovers let's say a
couple months on your friend is more
mentally alert more physically vital you
might be in the position of saying your
friend you know what it's been three
months that you've been lying down in
this hospital bed playing video games
and you know what
I think maybe you need some motivation
to recognize the extent to which nail
now you're wasting your time now it's
become a habit now it's become a hobby
now it's become something that's not
just taking your mind off the physical
agony or in it's become something that's
really holding you back in terms of your
rehabilitation and there's no doubt some
people are so disabled that they never
get up out of that hospital bed so to
speak whether it's from an injury or
from birth I have a half-brother who is
so severely
mentally that he has never said
a word in any language she's never
spoken a sentence in English his first
language presumably he is extremely
severely to say he's never had a job you
know he's not able to go grocery
shopping
that's severe mental disability as far
as I know he also doesn't play video
games but if he did nobody would say
that was a waste of his time okay
the question of whether or not this is a
waste of your time is relative to you
it's relative to what kind of a person
you are and who you aspire to be so if
you don't aspire to be better than this
if you don't aspire to be better than a
mental eight-year-old someone who
morally and intellectually and even
aesthetically has nothing better to do
than sit on the couch and play video
games go through this repetitive action
again and again okay if that's who you
are you've got to recognize that you've
got to say hey this doesn't seem like a
waste of time to me
because I myself am a person of such
such low caliber of such little
potential intellectually politically
ethically creatively you could be
painting a picture and playing a video
game but if you really think the picture
you could paint or the story you could
write or the positive difference you
could make in the world is not worth
doing compared to sitting there and
playing that video game like an
eight-year-old that is not a judgment on
the video game that's not a judgment on
the objective quality of the video game
that is an objective judgment on you on
your worth as a person the problem is
not the video game the problem is not
the deck of cards the problem is not a
little piece bunch of pieces of plastic
in a box that can be assembled into a
model in a model kit okay the problem is
you but there's good news because the
solution
the solution is Ewell's